To style the primary and
secondary buttons, I'm going to give
them a modifier, right, we talked about
modifiers with block element modifier.
Let's go ahead and
actually use them in practice, so button,
we want this to be button primary,
and this will be button secondary.
So this will allow us to have some
similar styling with the button class and
then customize it based
on the modifier here.
I'm also going to create a couple more
variables in our base file that will allow
us to be consistent.
So I'm going to declare color,
we'll call it button,
primary background, and
we'll give this the color text on primary,
we'll set it to that.
And this is relating again, back to here
we can see we have a white background with
orange text, so that's our first variable.
The second one is going to be color,
it's going to be for the button,
it's going to be the primary text, and
this is going to be a Color primary.
It's a little bit verbose here,
but just bear with me.
Now we can actually use these, so
if I go back to our button code for
our primary one, let's use those primary.
So I wanna set background color to
our primary background variable
we just defined.
Button primary background, same for
color, bar, color, button, primary, text.
So there is something going wrong here,
let's figure out what's going wrong,
maybe I set the wrong values.
Our button primary, I set to orange,
I set it to our primary value,
not our primary text value,
we want to swap those, right.
Real-time debugging, let's go fix that, so
we want this one to be color primary,
not color text on primary, color primary.
I'm sorry this is supposed to be white,
I get myself all
confused white background orange
text color text on white.
Okay, now we're really going into bug
together, what am I doing wrong here?
You know what, look at this,
I have to find bar twice this is what's
going wrong I believe let's find out.
Me and my typos, let's see is this,
this is a moment of truth here.
Look at that, silly, we'll do the same
thing with the secondary button right
we're going to set the background
color and the font color.
In this case we have a border,
we either have an orange background or
no background depending on how you're
looking at this and then white text.
So just to make sure I don't have typos,
we're gonna do the same thing,
copy and pasting, except I'm changing
the primary to secondary here.
Secondary now the question is,
can I type that without misspelling it?
So we've got secondary for both of these
our background color, instead of white,
we want it to be the primary color, so
we want it to be that orange, right.
So color, primary, like that and
we want our text to be color,
text on primary, like that.
I'm gonna copy and paste this for
the secondary button,
as well make sure I'm not miss
typing anything secondary.
And instead of color button primary
background it'd be secondary,
also be secondary.
No typos there that's what copy and
pasting does,
okay, colors are working that looks nice.
We do need to align the buttons they're
looking a little bit misaligned here.
So to do that, I'm going to create
a little wrapper around these buttons,
since a little easier to position them.
I'm gonna call it div and I will
give it a class of button container.
Button-container, right,
okay, I now have a wrapping
container that's gonna help us
align these buttons in a nice way.
I've already started writing
this in the base file,
I'm just gonna continue in here.
But I guess this is really
specific to the homepage, so
you might wanna think about moving that
out if you were to do this on your own.
So in our button container we're laying
things out in one dimension right,
we want to align things in one dimension.
So that's a great use case for Flexbox so
I'm going to set the display property of
flex on our container, and look at that.
They're lined up, right, but we want
them to have a little bit of space.
So this is where our pseudo-selectors
are going to come into play or
pseudo-classes, right, so we want to give
some space between the buttons, right?
But I don't want this second button
is the last element in the container,
I don't want that to have a margin
end because it doesn't need it,
there's nothing to the right of it.
So, how do we target that?
I want all buttons to have,
margin in line end 20 pixels,
right, so regardless of text direction
It's right to left, left to right.
Margin-inline-end is the right one here,
not margin-right.
However, like I just mentioned,
I don't want the last one to have this,
because if we go in here,
does it visually make a difference?
Not right now because there's nothing to
the right of it, but let's say we added I
don't know something else to the right of
it we might not want that margin there.
So to get rid of that we'll target all
elements with a class of button, but
not this is where that not comes
into play, the last of type.
We don't want that last
button to have this margin.
So you can see it, it's no longer there,
we've excluded that.
Okay, last thing with these buttons,
we need to center this icon,
in order to do that, I'll just give
it a class so it's easy to target.
Give it class button,
icon, we'll call you,
and the last thing we want to do
Well, we didn't learn about this property,
but there is a way to
center things vertically, and
it's called vertical align.
And we want that to be vertically
aligned in the middle,
so we can see now that icon is
centered vertically, right.
If we take it away, it's not centered,
vertical align will do that for us.
Sometimes you'll see Flexbox
used within button elements,
I like to try and
avoid that, it does work.
But if you can use vertical align,
I would recommend doing that.
Last thing I'm going to give
the button container some top margin,
because right now it's sitting
right up against that subheading.
So let's fix that, let's do that here and
the button container will
give it a margin, margin top.
We'll give it 100 pixels.
Now it's got some space,
there's one other thing
I want to try here on our button I'm
gonna give it a box-sizing a border box.
Just remember we wanted it to have
a width of a hundred, or, I'm sorry,
a height of a hundred.
Where did you go, where's my box sizing?
Here we go, box sizing, border box.
And this instance is not gonna
change it because, again,
we've set the width and height, but
we did not have a border defined on this.
We do have a border to find on this,
box sizing border box, well,
it's not looking like it's
doing very much, does it?
Width of 206,92, it does look like
it's subtracting out the top and
bottom border here, right,
so the content box is 92,
so if we add up that 8, it equals 100.
Okay, one last thing, there are a couple
of things we can do to improve the site.
So our button elements don't do
anything when we're clicked, but
it would be nice to show the hover
state and focus state on these so
users recognize that they're buttons and
they can interact with them.
So the last thing I'm going to do
before we wrap up the homepage here,
I'm just going to set the cursor
on our button to a pointer value.
So now users say, this is clickable,
this is a button, right,
I'm also going to give it a hover and a
focus state button, hover, button, focus.
And you notice I've combined these two
selectors with a comma, saying both of
these separate selectors, these
are the styles to apply to both of them.
And in this case, I'm going to give it
an outline, I'll say two pixels solid.
We'll just say color text on primary,
so it'll be white,
right, in this case, so bar,
color, text on primary.
So, got our outline on hover,
the outlines being applied,
and see it's a little bit
like not super smooth.
So just to fix that we can
transition this property transition,
outline, say point two seconds and linear.
So there are a transition function,
time, and
the property that we
want to transition here.
>> They're saying you need the units and
the 0.20.
>> Are you serious?
>> Yes, so you need the seconds, yes.
>> Well, look at that,
I love the chat and I love this room for
not making me sit here in isolation.
But that is such a silly little bug.
CSS, okay, so that's it for this section
of the homepage, it's looking great.
It's done, so all that's left is to
finish up the speakers page, which it
looks like a lot, but we've already done
quite a bit we just need to apply it now.